#### SIG TFX-Addons
# Project Proposal

**Your name:** Michal Brys

**Your email:** michal.brys@openx.com

**Your company/organization:** OpenX

**Project name:** Model load test TFX Component

## Project Description
A TFX component performs a load test of the exported TensorFlow model because the prediction time may vary on the model type and structure.

## Project Category
Component

## Project Use-Case(s)
This component could extend a TFX InfraValidator behavior to validate the TensorFlow model serving performance using the load test.
The load test results will tell us:
* if the model will meet the prediction time requirements (essential in large scale implementations),
* if the changes in the new model will make it faster/slower comparing to the baseline model.

## Project Implementation
The load test component will integrate with TFX using the following approach:
* The `Model Load Test TFX Pipeline Component` creates a TensorFlow Serving endpoint like in the `InfraValidator TFX Pipeline Component`.
* The load test component spins up a pod on the Kubernetes cluster to perform the load test (send a specified volume of the prediction requests to the TensorFlow Serving endpoint).
* The model serving performance metrics (i.e. average prediction time) and the load test specification (the traffic volume, the network protocol used, etc.) are recorded and stored as an ML Metadata artifact.
* Produced ML Metadata artifacts could validate prediction speed compared to the baseline model. Based on that, we can decide if we want to proceed or break the TFX pipeline execution.

### Proposed component spec

INPUTS:
* `examples: ChannelParameter(type=tfx.types.standard_artifacts.Examples)` - examples used to perform load test. For the reproducibility reason, they should be the same across the multiple load tests, i.e. imported by `tfx.dsl.components.common.importer.Importer` component.
* `model: ChannelParameter(type=tfx.types.standard_artifacts.Model)` - model used to perform load test. May be output of `Trainer` or `tfx.dsl.components.common.importer.Importer`.
* `baseline_load_test_results:  ChannelParameter(type=ModelLoadTestResult`) - (optional) the artifact with the load test of the baseline model result. We will use it to compare models speed in the relative way.

PARAMETERS:
* `rps:  ExecutionParameter(type=int)` - the number of requests per second generated by the load testing tool
* `workers: ExecutionParameter(type=int)` - the number of concurent workers used to generate requests
* `duration: ExecutionParameter(type=int)` - the duration of the load test in seconds
* `timeout: ExecutionParameter(type=int)` - the timeout for each request (slower responses will count as error)
* other parameters depend on the load testing tool
* metric and threshold to bless the model or not. The logic how to bless or not need to be precised (i.e. the new model latency p90 can't be higher of 10% than the baseline model)

OUTPUTS:
* `load_test_results:  ChannelParameter(type=ModelLoadTestResult)` - the custom TFX artifact wich contains the load test parameters (for reference) and load test results (i.e. latency distribution, error distribution, `ok_ratio = OK requests / total requests`)
* `blessing: ChannelParameter(type=tfx.types.standard_artifacts.InfraBlessing)` - the artifact with model blessing. 

### Possible limitations:
* The component will use the model serving endpoint like in `InfraValidator TFX Pipeline Component`, it will support only the TensorFlow SavedModel model format, KubeflowDagRunner inside Kubeflow Pipelines and Kubernetes cluster.
* The prediction time is also related to the infrastructure used for the load test. It means that we should only analyze the model prediction time relatively. The absolute numbers could be hard to reproduce in the production environment.
* In this implementation, the infrastructure setup may not reflect the production environment. This part may be too detailed for the generic TFX component, but may be a good candidate for the tutorial/example code.
* The relationship with the `InfraValidator TFX Pipeline Component` may still be discussed. We may re-use the part with TensorFlow Serving endpoint setup and the prediction request creation. The independent part will be the sending prediction requests and measuring the responses latency.

## Project Dependencies
- An open source tool for load testing (i.e. (HTTP) vegeta https://github.com/tsenart/vegeta or (gRPC) ghz https://github.com/bojand/ghz)
- A k8s cluster and Kubeflow (like the `InfraValidator TFX Pipeline Component` which runs only on Kubeflow)

## Project Team
Michal Brys, michal.brys@openx.com, [@michalbrys](https://github.com/michalbrys)
  
Hannes Hapke, [@hanneshapke](https://github.com/hanneshapke)
