**Your name:** Robert Crowe

**Your email:** robertcrowe--at--google--dot--com

**Your company/organization:** Google

**Project name:** PandasTransform

## Project Description
This project will develop a new TFX component which can be used instead of the standard Transform component, and allows developers to work with Pandas dataframes for their feature engineering.  Processing will be distributed using Beam for scalability.  Operations which require a full pass over the dataset will not be supported in the first release.

## Project Category
Component

## Project Use-Case(s)
The primary use cases are:
* Developers who are not modeling in TensorFlow
* Developers who are prototyping and are more comfortable working with dataframes, at least initially, and may not deploy their model for inference
* Developers whose feature engineering can work with the basic statistics of the dataset (min, max, etc) and do not need to make full passes over the data

## Project Implementation
This will be implemented as a Python-function component, using Beam for processing.  Like the Transform component the user will supply a module file with their user code in a `preprocessing_fn`.  Their code will be supplied with their dataset as a Pandas dataframe, and they will return their results as a Pandas dataframe.  Their code will also be supplied with the basic statistics for their dataset, generated by StatisticsGen, and formatted as a Python dictionary.  Their code will also be supplied with the schema of their dataset, generated by SchemaGen, and formatted as a Python dictionary.

**Caveats:** It's important to note that each invocation of their `preprocessing_fn` will only be supplied with part of their dataset, to enable distributed processing.  That means that full passes over their dataset by their user code will not be possible, so operations which require a full pass will not be supported in the first release.  A future release may or may not enable full pass operations, TBD.

**Additional Notes:** It's also important to note that unlike the standard Transform component, this PandasTransform component does not output the
modified schema and statistics for the altered dataset.  To generate a schema and statistics which reflect any changes that you've made to your
dataset, you should follow the PandasTransform component with StatisticsGen and SchemaGen components in your pipeline.

## Project Dependencies
Apache Beam
PyArrow
Pandas
TensorFlow
TensorFlow Data Validation
TFX

## Project Team
Robert Crowe (rcrowe-google) robertcrowe--at--google--dot--com

# Note
Please be aware of the processes and requirements which are outlined here:

* [SIG-TFX-Addons](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-addons)
* [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-addons/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [TensorFlow Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-addons/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
